I am Jan Joosten van Lodensteyn from the Netherlands,
I was born in 1556 in Delft city. I am known
in Japanese as Yayosu. I am considered as
one of the first Dutchmen in Japan, and the
second mate on the Dutch ship De Liefde, which
was stranded in Japan in 1600. Foreigners
were not welcomed in Japan in that time; however,
I was allowed to take a Japanese wife and
was given a permit to engage in foreign trade.
I was privileged to wear the two swords of
the samurai and received an annual stipend
which placed me among the ranks of the direct
retainers of the shogun. I was granted a house
in Tokyo in an area that came to be called
"Yayosu Quay" after me. My name was pronounced
yan yosuten in Japanese. The Yaesu side of
Tokyo Station is also named after me.
My endeavor to Japan started in 1598 from
Rotterdam on my ship. I was on a trading voyage
that was a five-ship expedition to the East
Indies. After making it through the Straits
of Magellan. Due to a storm, my ship was damaged
and made landfall off Bungo (current day Usuki)
on the coast of Kyushu in 1600. The ship was
seized on orders of Tokugawa Ieyasu, the daimyo
of Tokyo, who questioned us at length on European
politics, wars and foreign affairs. Our ship
canons were used by Ieyasu at the decisive
Battle of Sekigahara in 1600.
I am reported to have made a fortune in trade
between Japan and Southeast Asia, chartering
several Red Seal Ships under license from
Tokugawa Ieyasu. After the establishment of
the Dutch Factory in Hirado, I became a middleman
between Dutch merchants and the shogunate.
I kept sailing and trading until my last voyage
in 1623 returning from Thailand to Japan,
but after reaching Batavia, I was denied permission
by Dutch authorities to proceed further. I
drowned in the South China Sea in that year.
I loved connecting world civilizations and
exchanging culture and goods and I hope this
is how nations still see each other, through
the eyes of respect and rich heritage.